For our next test drive, we're going to take a look at executing a full Python program using the IPython interpreter at the command line once again.
For the purpose of this particular demonstration, you are going to need to change into the examples folder containing the book's examples,
and specifically the subfolder 01, which contains the stuff for this lesson.
And in order to do that, I've provided the CD commands for Mac OS and Linux, as well as two different versions for Windows.
So if you're a Mac OS or Linux user, you can use the shorthand tilde forward slash documents to go into your documents folder,
and then the examples folder and the 01 folder.
If you're on Windows, depending on which Anaconda command line you're using, the way that you change folders is a little bit different.
So if you use the Anaconda prompt, which is based on the command prompt window in Microsoft Windows,
your CD command is going to be percent user profile percent, which is your user folder on your system,
and then backslash documents, backslash examples, backslash 01.
If you're using the Anaconda PowerShell window, which also has some Mac OS Linux-like capabilities,
in that case you're going to use the CD command with dollar home, backslash documents, backslash examples, backslash 01.
So you may want to pause the video to copy down the proper command,
and also I just want to remind you that if when you downloaded our code examples,
you did not put the examples folder directly into your documents folder,
or if you renamed it, you will obviously also need to go ahead and update these.
For this demo, I'm once again starting from a fresh terminal window,
just to remind you that if you're going to work with the custom environment we set up back in the Before You Begin lesson,
you will need to activate that environment,
and the activation needs to be done for every new terminal window you open.
So if you close the last one, you are going to have to reactivate the environment.
So I'm now in my Python 3.13 version of the environment,
and currently I'm actually in my user accounts root folder,
but I will type the CD command using that anyway.
So tilde forward slash, no matter where you happen to be at any given time, will go to your user accounts folder,
and I'm going to use a little command line auto-completion here.
On Mac OS and Linux, your command lines are case sensitive,
and I do have a folder that starts with capital D-O-C, which is my documents folder,
so if I hit tab now, it will auto-complete that for me,
and for example, I can auto-complete the examples folder, and then finish this path off with the 01.
Once you are in the folder, you can confirm its contents by listing them out.
On Mac OS and Linux, that's going to be the L-S command.
You can also use that in a Windows PowerShell as well.
In a Windows regular command prompt or the Anaconda prompt,
you can use the D-I-R command to get a directory listing, if you would like.
The script that we're about to run in this case is called RollDyDynamic.py.
It's a full Python program that we're actually going to build at the end of lesson six.
It is a dynamic visualization that demonstrates the law of large numbers in action.
In this script, we're going to roll a six-sided die, or I should say simulate rolling a six-sided die,
and the more times we roll a six-sided die, if it's a balanced die,
we should get approximately the same number of 1s, 2s, 3s, 4s, 5s, and 6s,
about 16.667% of the total rolls.
As I run this, I've set this script up with command line arguments
that allow me to change how many dice I roll and how many animation frames I create as well,
so that we can demonstrate this a couple of different ways.
So as I do with interactive coding, even when I run scripts in these videos,
I will use the IPython interpreter to run this script,
and I'll use some command line auto-completion here.
Just a reminder, when you're running a script, you can also run with the plain Python command,
which you'll have with any Python distribution.
This particular script does require two command line arguments.
The first one is going to be the number of animation frames you would like to produce,
and the second one is going to be the number of dice to simulate rolling per animation frame.
So in this particular demo, we're only going to roll one die at a time,
and we're going to do that 600 times overall in separate animation frames
that summarize the rolls so far in a visualization called a bar plot.
So now we can see the visualization on the screen.
It's rolling one die at a time very rapidly at the moment,
and we can kind of see the bars jumping and dancing,
and at the top of every bar, we have the current die frequency
and the percentage of the total die rolls overall.
Now the bulk of this diagram was produced actually with a single line of code
using a function from a library called Seaborn,
which is a visualization library with lots of powerful features
that sits on top of another very powerful visualization library called matplotlib.
And Seaborn makes matplotlib easier to use, prettier,
and also adds some of its own visualization capabilities on top of matplotlib as well.
So when we do build this visualization at the end of lesson six,
I'll show you the one method, or function rather,
that produces the bulk of what you see here,
and a lot of the code in that example is to do all the additional labeling in text
that you see in this particular diagram.
Now when you're doing a small number of rolls,
the law of large numbers does not tend to play out.
But if we have a good random number generator in Python,
and we roll more dice over time, we should see these bars start to even out.
So let's go ahead and run this again.
I'll recall the last command that I executed at the command line with an up arrow.
And let's roll, instead of one die per frame, let's roll 100 dice per frame.
And so we can go ahead and rerun the simulation,
and already we see that the bars are starting to even out in height.
There's still clearly a difference in the heights of several of these bars,
but they're all in the 16% range overall right now,
and we're going to be doing a total of 60,000 die rolls in this simulation
when we're doing 600 frames and 100 die rolls per frame.
So as we can see, it's just finishing up now,
and we did get pretty close to 16.667% across the board,
but a little bit above and a little bit below, mostly, in this demonstration.
And of course, we can do it again and roll many more dice per animation frame.
Let's jack that up to, say, 10,000 dice per frame.
So now we're going to do a million.
We should expect, rather, a million dice of each total overall.
And we'll go ahead and run that, and right away,
we start seeing those bars evening out a lot faster overall.
And if we let this play out to the full 6 million die rolls
that we're doing at the moment,
we should see these all zeroing in pretty close to 16.6-something percent,
and we can already see that's playing out here
if you look at the numbers as they jump and dance.
This one's a little bit higher at the moment,
and we should see that start to come back down.
And in fact, they all finished at the 16.6%
with a little bit higher number on the purple bar
than most of the other ones overall.
And if we keep rolling this,
and it's a really good random number generator,
over time, we should start to see every single one of these
top out at 16.667% overall.
So kind of a fun way to demonstrate the law of large numbers in action.
And with this visualization, as soon as you close the window
that's running it, the program terminates,
and now you're back to your command line
where you can do your other commands.